teenager wants to start dating huh this
can be a strange and
awkward time for everyone on the one
hand you're probably thinking
where did my baby go well your teen is
thinking
how can i date this person without mom
or dad freaking out
hey don't worry there are ways to
navigate teen dating that'll keep the
weirdness
and worry to a minimum
number one do accept this and don't
panic realize that this period in your
teen's life is
normal your teen's hormones are raging
at this
age so if you strictly forbid dating
they're probably going to do it anyway
without your knowledge and without your
rules
dating is part of what's going to help
shape your teen into who they become
they learn a lot of life lessons through
dating too
teens understand and accept that your
parents are going to feel protective
they might be a little hesitant to give
you this type of freedom
this is just as hard for them as it is
for you
except that your parents will have rules
too
number two do have an open and honest
discussion
don't shy away from the hard topics
openness will go a long way with your
team you'd be surprised
talk about your views on what's
appropriate behavior on a day
the more open you are the more open your
team will be
teens yeah this type of discussion can
be totally weird and awkward to have
with your parents
but realize that they've been there
before
be willing to be open with your parents
and you'll probably find that they'll
chill out
and appreciate your honesty tell them
how you feel about these issues too
i guarantee they'll listen
three do keep communication open
assure your teen that if they're on a
date and something doesn't feel right
they can always call you to come pick
them up no matter what time it is
communicate about where their date is
taking place who it's with
and how they're getting there talk with
your teen about how they feel about this
person
how they met them all of that teens
it might seem like your parents are
being nosy but it's only because they
care about you
and they're asking normal questions
you're their kid
of course they're going to want to know
all the details so
be honest and give them the info they're
asking for
and again you'll probably find that
they'll chill out
bring your data in to meet them number
four
do be informed dating trends are
probably different now than they were
when you were dating
get a grasp on how your teen is meeting
people
a good way to do this is to get informed
about phone apps
and how your teen is using the internet
[Music]
so much of life happens online now
especially for your teen
so ask them questions and trust their
gut
teens mom and dad probably don't get why
you're on your phone all the time
they truly don't know what it's like to
have an online life
they didn't grow up with phones and
ipads yeah we just sent telegraphs to
each other
if you met your date on bumble for
example just explain a little bit about
it to your parents and help them
understand
number five do set rules and boundaries
set a curfew tell your teen that if you
check in and text them
you expect a reply whatever rules and
boundaries you think are important to
set
set them try to make rules situational
though
the rules that mrs jones has for her
team don't have to be the rules that you
set for yours
obviously there should be consequences
for rule breaking
but if you're too harsh or strict your
teen might rebel
this would cause a strained relationship
and you don't want that
and honestly neither does your team
assure your teen that you trust them but
you just
want your expectations to be clear
teens just follow the rules get home by
curfew
respect what your parents say rules
might be annoying
but your parents are setting them to
keep you safe and accountable
accept the consequences if you do break
a rule the more you obey the rules
the more trust you'll establish 6.
do be accepting of who your team dates
it's really pretty simple your team
likes who they like
they choose their friends and now
they're going to choose someone they're
romantically interested in
don't judge the person they've chosen to
date if you strictly forbid your teen
from seeing this person
well that might put them in a romeo and
juliet mindset
and that's definitely not good if
something doesn't sit right with you
about who your teen is dating
see number two and three have an open
and honest discussion
teens the best way to set your parents
at ease about who you're dating
is to have them meet your date don't
keep who you're dating a big
secret you might think that your parents
don't get it
but you'd be surprised before you go on
a date
bring them in to meet and chat with your
parents
number seven do encourage variety
the first person your team dates
probably won't be the one
this is a fun period of life for your
teen so let it be
fun encourage them to date different
kinds of people
and learn what they want in a partner
they'll learn how their future partner
should be treated and how they
themselves should be treated
this is a chance for your teen to find
out who they are and what their
priorities are
also suggest different kinds of
activities for your teen's dates
so that they really get to know the
other person
teens try to date different kinds of
people
get to know different people you have
plenty of time to find your
happily ever after find out what
qualities you like in another person
and explore what those qualities bring
out in you
learn about what you deserve in a
relationship and what the other person
deserves to
you'll learn a lot about yourself while
dating and have fun
yeah dating can be awkward but be
creative and come up with unique
activities to do on your date
maybe mom and dad can help you there
eight
do let your teen make small mistakes
obviously don't let them make huge life
changing mistakes
think back to when you were dating
didn't you learn the most when you made
a mistake
boy i sure did be willing to talk with
your teen about mistakes you've made on
dates
you both might get a laugh out of it
know that your teen is going to make
mistakes but know that they're smart
enough to learn from them
it might sound scary but loosening the
reins might be the best thing you ever
did for them
teens know that you're going to mess up
embarrassing stuff
will happen hopefully you can learn to
laugh about it
and that's the point here learning if
you're a teenager you're supposed to
make mistakes
if you can learn from them mistakes will
help you grow
and teach you to handle bigger issues
later on and your parents know that
you'll make mistakes and that's okay
they were teens once too no kidding
nine do still have family time
don't be hands off your team needs a
healthy balance between just being a
teen and family time
this is how you can stay involved in
your teen's life and that's super
important
family time is when you can utilize that
open communication
your team needs to realize how important
family is
so strengthen those bonds let your team
know that the people they date will come
and go
but their family will always be there
teens it may feel like it but dating
isn't everything
it's still important to hang out with
your family so don't fight your parents
about family time
it's a chance to just be with them it's
also the perfect time to ask them dating
questions
tell them about a funny date you went on
family time might sound corny but it's
really important to be close with your
family
they'll always have your back